# MSD UI Demo System

This demo is a base design system that shows how Figma’s Variables, Styles, Components, and Code Connect can be used alongside a React codebase to form a complete picture of a web design system.

There are still many gaps between design and development, and MSD UI provides some best practices for how to bridge them. MSD UI tries to remain honest about its implications in code, while also offering customizability in design beyond the simple theming layer that is typical of many code-first component libraries.

## Reseources

- [Storybook](https://main--68beda840fc6b18bc9ea89be.chromatic.com)

## Setup

- `pnpm i` to install dependencies
- `pnpm app:dev` will run a dev server at [localhost:8000][http://localhost:8000] which renders contents of [App.tsx](src/App.tsx)
- `pnpm storybook` to start Storybook at [localhost:6006][http://localhost:6006]

### Figma Auth

- [Create a Figma API token](https://www.figma.com/developers/api#authentication)
  - Add Code Connect scope
  - Add File Read, Dev Resources Write, and Variables scopes if you want to use the integrations in [scripts](./scripts/)
  - [More on scopes](https://www.figma.com/developers/api#authentication-scopes)
- Duplicate [.env-rename](./.env-rename)
- Rename it to `.env`, it will be ignored from git.
  - Set `FIGMA_ACCESS_TOKEN=` as your token in `.env`
  - Set `FIGMA_FILE_KEY=` as your file's key (grab it from the file URL) in `.env`

### Code Connect

MSD UI is fully backed by Figma's Code Connect. This includes examples for how to connect [primitives](./src/figma/primitives/), as well as [compositions](./src/figma/compositions/) of those primitives.

This repo utilizes `documentUrlSubstitutions` in [figma.config.json](./figma.config.json). This allows us to keep our docs Figma file-agnostic and colocates all the Figma file-specific information for easy url swapping. The document URL substitutions are also named in a way that helps you find the associated component without clicking a link. A key `<FIGMA_INPUTS_CHECKBOX_GROUP>` is broken down as `<FIGMA_[PAGE_NAME]_[COMPONENT_NAME]>`.

```json
{
  "documentUrlSubstitutions": {
    "<FIGMA_INPUTS_CHECKBOX_GROUP>": "https://figma.com/design/whatever?node-id=123-456"
  }
}
```

Allows us to have more expressive URLs in our Code Connect docs:

```js
figma.connect(CheckboxGroup, '<FIGMA_INPUTS_CHECKBOX_GROUP>')
```

## Structure

All components and styles are in [src/ui](./src/ui). Within that directory, code is broken down into a few categories.

### [src/ui/compositions](./src/ui/compositions/)

Example arrangements of primitive components to demonstrate how you might use MSD UI to build a responsive website.

### [src/ui/hooks](./src/ui/hooks/)

Custom React hook definitions

### [src/ui/icons](./src/ui/icons/)

All icon components. Automatically generated by [scripts/icons](./scripts/icons)

### [src/ui/images](./src/ui/images/)

Placeholder images.

### [src/ui/layout](./src/ui/layout/)

Layout components. Crucial to MSD UI layouts, but do not have analogous component in Figma.

### [src/ui/primitives](./src/ui/primitives/)

The main component library. MSD UI primitives can't be reduced further into sub components.

### [src/ui/providers](./src/ui/providers/)

Custom React provider definitions

### [src/ui/utils](./src/ui/utils/)

Custom utilities and utility components

### Code Connect and Storybook

All Code Connect docs and Storybook stories follow the same categorization are defined in [src/figma](./src/figma) and [src/stories](./src/stories).

## Scripts

Some example integrations are available in `scripts` directory. They may require additional API scope that your org may or may not have access to. Where possible, there are some plugin examples to help fill gaps.

### [scripts/icons](./scripts/icons)

- `pnpm run script:icons:rest`
- Gets all icons from the file, and generates components in the [src/ui/icons](./src/ui/icons) directory.
- Also generates [src/figma/icons/Icons.figma.tsx](./src/figma/icons/Icons.figma.tsx) for Code Connect.

### [scripts/tokens](./scripts/tokens)

#### With REST API Access

- `pnpm run script:tokens:rest`
- Gets all variables and styles from Figma, and converts them to [src/theme.css](./src/theme.css).
- Creates [scripts/tokens/tokensCodeSyntaxes.js](./scripts/tokens/tokensCodeSyntaxes.js) which is a script you can run in the JS console in Figma to update all the variable's [codeSyntaxes](https://www.figma.com/plugin-docs/api/Variable/#codesyntax) with CSS that matches this repo.

#### Without REST API Access

- [Install plugins](https://www.figma.com/plugin-docs/plugin-quickstart-guide/) in Development
- Run plugins, and copy plugin outputs into [scripts/tokens/styles.json](./scripts/tokens/styles.json) and [scripts/tokens/tokens.json](./scripts/tokens/tokens.json)
- Run `npm run script:tokens` (without `:rest`) and it will reference the JSON files directly without making a REST API request to update them
